

    Home Olympics News Weather Coronavirus News Entertainment More > 

lifestyle
Previous
Next
10 Colorful Flowers That Grow in Shade
The Family Handyman logo The Family Handyman 3/13/2021 Reader's Digest Editors
a green plant in a garden: Shade garden plant combination © Giedra Bartas/Shutterstock Shade garden plant combination
Why Shade Gardening?

Often times those shady spots in your garden are neglected, unnoticed, or even cause anger by homeowners, looking to plant their favorite flowers that just won't grow without plenty of sunshine. But there's no reason to cut down your beautiful maple tree, or completely pave in that section of your yard that's shaded by your house the entire day. Veteran garden editor and designer Luke Miller says that he sometimes prefers shade gardening to sunny spaces. "Shade gardening is overlooked by many homeowners, sometimes even by avid gardeners. Let's face it, there are many more opportunities for colorful flowers in a sun-loving garden. But here's the rub: shade gardens can be quite attractive themselves. And they almost always take less maintenance, watering and fertilizing than sunny gardens. Most people would say that's a good thing."
a pink flower on a plant: Bleeding Heart Flowers © Insung Jeon/Getty Images Bleeding Heart Flowers
Bleeding Heart

It's no secret where this unique plant got its name. Delicate, heart-shaped petals open to reveal white, drop-like pieces, They're a truly striking addition to any garden, and they thrive in shade gardens. These shade flowers grow in USDA Hardiness Zones three through nine.
a close up of a flower: Lily flowers with water drops on leaves after the rain © Tatiana Kochkina/Shutterstock Lily flowers with water drops on leaves after the rain
Lily of the Valley

Shade flowers like these tiny white petals will even better without too much sun. The lily of the valley flowers emit an enchanting fragrance in late spring and early summer and will brighten up those shady dark corners of your yard. "Lily of the valley is a perfume factory," Miller adds. "Not to mention the bell-shaped flowers are adorable." These short plants make a great ground cover.
a close up of a flower: Macro of blue flowers with nice blurred background © NERYXCOM/Shutterstock Macro of blue flowers with nice blurred background
Alpine Forget-Me-Not

Add clouds of color to your garden with a patch of tiny azure-blue flowers. They thrive in dry shade, conditions that can be particularly difficult.
a close up of a purple flower: Polemonium caeruleum, known as Jacob's-ladder or Greek valerian close-up © Anatoliy Berislavskiy/Shutterstock Polemonium caeruleum, known as Jacob's-ladder or Greek valerian close-up
Jacob's Ladder

Video: How to Plant Flowers For a Garden Full of Color (Better Homes and Gardens)

    Atlanta Interior Decorator Brian Patrick Flynn Brings Contagious Joy and Bright Colors to Atlanta Interior Decorator Brian Patrick Flynn Brings Contagious Joy and Bright Colors to Mind For Design will not only give you a home décor renovation from start to finish but it will also lift the curtain to show the entire team that makes it happen. Southern Living Logo Southern Living
    a person standing in front of a window The Outdoor Feature Nearly 70 Percent of Homeowners Say They Need (Way More Than a Pool!) Three-quarters of buyers say they'd pass on a home without it. Southern Living Logo Southern Living
    Home Remodeling Projects Best Left to the Pros Home Remodeling Projects Best Left to the Pros Remodeling your home with DIY projects can give your home a fresh look for less. But before you pull out your tools, here are the projects we recommend leaving to professionals. Better Homes and Gardens Logo Better Homes and Gardens

These bell-shaped, purple perennials adapt well to flower gardens and tolerate both shade and sun. Miller also advises filling in space around your shade flowers. "I highly recommend mulching with shredded leaves to copy what happens in nature. The Shredded leaves will quickly become humus, which is like forest duff that nourishes plants and protects the soil. It also adds a lot of microbes, which are beneficial to plant roots."
a close up of a flower: White classy solomon's seal flower © tunesan/Shutterstock White classy solomon's seal flower
Solomon's Seal

Gracefully arching stems support clusters of tubular white flowers and long, bright green leaves. A perfect plant for a shady flower border. Knowing how much sun and shade a plant need is important to its growth and success.
a bunch of purple flowers: anemone blanda blue © B_K_Design/Shutterstock anemone blanda blue
Anemone Blanda Blue

Also known as the winter windflower, Anemone Blanda Blue thrives in partial shade. Its purply-blue, daisy-like flowers will add a festive touch to your patch.
a close up of a flower: Pulmonaria Flowers lungwort medicinal plant © Volovchuk Oleksandr/Shutterstock Pulmonaria Flowers lungwort medicinal plant
Lungwort

These are good groundcover plants for deep shade, with hairy, dark green leaves spotted with white. In early spring, clusters of funnel-shaped flowers open pink and then turn blue. Next, check out more of our favorite red flowers for home gardens.
a vase filled with purple flowers: A bunch of blue violets © Natalia Ganelin/Shutterstock A bunch of blue violets
Viola

Viola is a huge genus of flowering plants including some 400 to 500 species. Leaves of these species are usually heart-shaped and scalloped-shaped, while the five-petaled flowers come in scores of colors.
a close up of a flower: cowslip © Dar1930/shutterstock cowslip
Cowslip Primrose

Who needs sunshine when you have a carpet of yellow or red flowers with crinkled bright-green foliage? Shade flowers like this bring plenty of brightness to any garden, even without direct sunlight.
a close up of a flower: Blooming Begonia tuberhybrida close up © Asetta/Shutterstock Blooming Begonia tuberhybrida close up
Tuberous Begonias

These flowers are popular for their variety, coming in red, orange, yellow, white, salmon, or pink blooms. Tuberous begonias blossom throughout the summer, thriving in shady spots where few other plants with long bloom periods and showy flowers can grow. Miller adds, "The amount of shade will determine just what you can plant. A tuberous begonia will grow in dappled shade, but not heavy shade. That kind of work is for ferns."

[Sources: Localgardener.net, enjoy-your-garden.net, plantcare.com]
Go to MSN Home
AdChoices
MORE FROM THE FAMILY HANDYMAN

    We Tried It: Kasa Smart Light Switches
    The Family Handyman Logo The Family Handyman
    Dish Detergent 81alvkwnmxs. Ac Sl1500
    8 Best Safe and Effective Dishwasher Detergents
    The Family Handyman Logo The Family Handyman
    How to Choose the Best Siding for Your Cabin
    The Family Handyman Logo The Family Handyman

The Family Handyman
The Family Handyman
View the full site
AdChoices

    Home Olympics News Weather Coronavirus News Entertainment Money Sports esports Lifestyle Shopping Health & Fitness Food & Drink Travel Autos Video Kids 

© 2021 Microsoft Privacy & Cookies Terms of use About our Ads Feedback Help MSN Worldwide MSN Blog About Us Editorial Standards
image beaconimage beaconimage beacon
