
Skip to content
Healthy Food Tribe

    Food
        Fruits
        Vegetables
        Herbs and Spices
        Supplements
        Weight Loss
    Kitchen
        Blenders
        Juicers
    Recipes
        Smoothies
        Juices
    About
        Contact
        Resources

Home » Food » Fruits » Exotic Fruits List
Exotic fruits list
35 Exotic Fruits You Should Try at Least Once

Please note that I may earn a small commission from purchases made through product links in this article at no extra cost to you. As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
 

Last updated: July 18, 2021

When looking at the range of fruits available in the supermarket, you may think there is a lot to choose from. And actually, there is, but did you know that this range is only the tip of the fruit iceberg?

There are still so many exotic fruits out there that we may have never seen before in any grocery store, which makes these fruits all the more exciting.

Some of these rare, exotic fruits can be difficult to find, because they are often only available in tropical regions. The best chance to find some of these unique fruits, is by visiting a specialty grocery store, or otherwise an authentic Asian supermarket.
Also read:
>> 15 Weird and unusual vegetables you should try.
35 Unique Exotic Fruits

Move over apples, pears and bananas! Here is a list of 35 exotic fruits you may have never seen, or even heard of. They all have their own unique, weird and unusual shapes, flavors, colors and nutritional benefits.

So next time you go on holiday in some cool tropical paradise, keep an eye out for one of these exotic and delicious fruits and indulge yourself!
1. Cherimoya Fruit

The cherimoya may not look overly appealing at first glance, but when you cut this green fruit in half and eat its delicious flesh, you will definitely want more of it.

Cherimoyas are native to South America, and over the years have also been introduced to other warm climates such as in South Europe, South Asia and Africa.
Cherimoya fruit
Cherimoya fruit

The flesh of the cherimoya is of a creamy, custard-like texture which is why this fruit is also referred to as the custard apple.

The cherimoya fruit is very refreshing and tastes a bit like a combination of banana, pineapple and strawberry. You’ll often find this weird but delicious fruit at Latin American style markets.
2. Durian

The durian fruit is by many known as the smelly fruit. While it may be true that the scent of a durian’s flesh doesn’t appeal to everyone, it is in fact a very healthy and nutritious treat that you should try at least once in your life. Block your nose if you have to!
Durian fruit
Durian

Native to Malaysia and Indonesia, a lot of people in Southeast Asia consider durian to be the king of fruits. Don’t be surprised when people run away when you cut through its spiky skin.

But the thick and custard-like flesh of the durian is actually very nutritious and rich in numerous essential vitamins and minerals.

Food writer Richard Sterling once described the odor of durian fruit as follows:
“A mix of pig-shit, turpentine and onions, garnished with a gym sock…”

Ouch! 🙂 But please don’t let that put you off, it’s a delicious fruit. The best place to find durian fruit is at Asian grocery stores.
3. Miracle Fruit

Native to West Africa, the miracle fruit may be small but it is gifted with the power to make sour fruits taste sweet, like magic. Mix the juice of this berry of that with lemons or limes and you’ll get a delicious drink.
Miracle fruit
Miracle fruit

A molecule called miraculin has the ability to manipulate tongue receptors in a way that we interpret sour foods as sweet. A small miracle indeed!

Because of this chemical, miracle fruit has been tried as a healthy alternative to artificial sweeteners. It’s also gained some popularity among dieters and patients with diabetes.
4. Kiwano Fruit

The spiky and bright yellow/orange skin of kiwano fruit, also known as horned melon, will immediately grab your attention once you see it. And when you cut one open, the soft, green flesh may surprise you even more.
Kiwano fruit aka horned melon
Kiwano fruit aka horned melon

Native to southern and central Africa, the kiwano fruit is a rare combination of a cucumber and a melon. It tastes like a mix of banana, cucumber, zucchini and kiwifruit. They can be a bit pricey in the US, but it’s definitely worth a try.

Some say it has a somewhat boring taste, but I personally love it. It’s good for you too, as it’s very low in calories and rich in a variety of vitamins and minerals, such as magnesium, potassium and vitamins A and C.
5. Mangosteen

The mangosteen tree is an evergreen tree believed to have originated in the Moluccas (Indonesia) and the Sunda Islands.

The fruits from the mangosteen tree are dark-red or purple, with white flesh that is deliciously sweet and juicy.
Mangosteen fruit
Mangosteen fruit

The mangosteen fruit is a real treat, high in fiber and low in calories.

While the tasty and nutritious mangosteen fruit has gained popularity in recent years, it’s a treat that’s still very hard to find.
6. Kumquat

With the cool looks of a miniature, oval shaped orange, the kumquat (or cumquat) is a delicious citrus fruit. Kumquats are very similar to oranges in nutritional profile and the way they look, but much smaller.

The evergreen kumquat tree (it’s actually more of a plant) is native to China and South Asia but has also been introduced to Europe and North America.
Kumquats
Kumquats

The kumquat fruit is rich in dietary fiber and loaded with a great variety of minerals and vitamins, such as vitamin C (unsurprisingly), magnesium, calcium and potassium.

The most surprising part is that the peel of kumquats is also edible. In fact, the peel is where most of the nutrients are stored, such as dietary fiber and essential oils.
7. Cupuaçu Fruit

Brazilians like to think of Cupuaçu as an alternative to cocoa and chocolate. Cupuaçu (pronounced “coo-poo-asoo”) stems from the Sterculiaceae plant family of which cacao and chocolate are the most famous products.
Cupuaçu fruit
Cupuaçu fruit

The pulp of the Cupuaçu fruit is tasty and smells a bit like banana. It’s a very potent fruit, loaded with B-vitamins, antioxidants such as flavonoids and fatty and amino acids.

Cupuacu is quite a unique exotic fruit that you won’t easily find in the United States, but you may be able to find it in the form of shampoo, lotion, powder, butter or juice if you look hard enough.
8. Rambutan Fruit

Rambut is Malay for “hair”, and looking at the fruit, this makes perfect sense.

The Rambutan fruit is native to tropical Southeast Asia (in particular the Malay-Indonesian region), and is very closely related to the lychee.
Rambutan fruit
Rambutan fruit

The tender fruit inside a Rambutan is described as sweet and sour, similar to a grape. Wikihow has some great tips on how to eat and store rambutan.

Rambutan is a delicious treat loaded with vitamin C and antioxidants. While it’s quite easy to find in some Asian countries, you may need a bit of luck finding this fruit at your local specialty grocery store in the U.S. or Europe.
9. Feijoa

Feijoa is also known as pineapple guava or guavasteen, and is native to South America but also commercially grown in California and New Zealand. The flesh of feijoa fruit is cream-colored with a jelly-like substance in the center.
Feijoa fruit
Feijoas

A great source of vitamin C and dietary fiber, feijoas are getting more popular and regularly pop up in bigger supermarkets and in specialty markets.
10. Buddha’s Hand

Likely the most unusually shaped fruit in this list, the Buddha’s hand is actually a citrus fruit, but without the pulp.
Buddha's hand
Buddha’s hand

Originating from India and China, the weird looking Buddha’s hand doesn’t taste as bitter, and is mostly used for zesting and flavoring purposes.
11. Snake Fruit

It’s obvious where snake fruit – also known as Salak – got its name from. But don’t let the looks of this Southeast Asian fruit scare you, because its deliciously sweet and sour flesh is to die for.
Snake fruit
Snake fruit

Salak is a type of palm tree native to Indonesia, and is very popular as a snack on the streets of Bangkok, Thailand.
12. Dragon Fruit

Perhaps not as rare or as unique as most other treats in this list of exotic fruits, the dragon fruit is still my personal favorite. Also known as pitaya, dragon fruit is native to South America, Central America and Mexico, and is also grown in Asian regions.

The texture of the flesh is very much like the juicy flesh of kiwifruit, with similar tiny, edible black seeds inside. It tastes a bit like a mix of pear, kiwifruit and watermelon.
Dragon fruit
Dragon fruit

Dragon fruit is about the size of a large potato and is usually red (magenta) in color, although they can also be pink and yellow.

The flesh can be either red or white. High in fiber, calcium, vitamin C and B-vitamins and very low in calories, pitaya is an absolutely delicious tropical fruit.
13. Langsat Fruit

The langsat fruit is widely grown in parts of Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Sumatra. Similar to the rambutan fruit, the flesh of the langsat fruit also resembles a lychee.
Langsat fruit
Langsat fruit

While the langsat fruit may have the looks of a small potato, its taste is delicious and very unique, like a mix of grapes, bananas and grapefruits.
14. Cucamelon

The cucamelon fruit goes by a lot of other names, such as mouse melon, Mexican sour cucumber and Mexican miniature watermelon.
Cucamelon fruit
Cucamelons

Native to Mexico and Central America, cucamelon is an odd mix of watermelon and cucumber. It tastes like cucumber but with a bit of sourness to it.
15. Jackfruit

With 90 cm (35 inch) in length and 50 cm (20 inch) in diameter, the fruit of the jackfruit tree (also known as jack tree) is the largest tree-borne fruit.
Jackfruit
Jackfruit

It may look similar to durian but they are in fact from different families, and luckily, jackfruit doesn’t smell as bad as durian does.

Named the national fruit of Bangladesh, a Jackfruit tree can produce up to 200 fruits in a year. Considering the size of the fruit, that is a lot of food!
16. Soursop

Soursop, also known as graviola, or custard apple, is a large, green tropical fruit with flesh that tastes sweet and sour.
Soursop
Soursop

Native to Central America and the Caribbean Islands, soursop is often used as the basis for several beverages, ice creams and other sweet foods popular in South America.

Soursop has grown in popularity with herbal practitioners who recommend the fruit and leaves of the tree as a relief for a variety of ailments.
17. Aguaje Fruit

Very popular in the Amazon rain forest, aguaje fruit is a great source of vitamins A and C. The fruit has a dark-red scaly skin with yellow flesh inside that contains a hard nut.
Aguaje fruit
Aguaje fruit

Also called the “curvy fruit”, rumor has it that this fruit helps women to get curves in all the right places, but I’m not too sure about that…
18. Pepino Fruit

The pepino (solanum muricatum) is best described as a weird mix between a pear and a melon. Common in South America, the pepino is related to nightshades such as eggplants and tomatoes.
Pepino fruit
Pepino fruit

With a sweet taste similar to cucumber and honeydew melon, the pepino is entirely edible, including the skin.
19. Plantain

The plantain (or cooking banana) looks almost exactly like a banana, but it is a different fruit. While it’s part of the banana family, the plantain is low in sugar and should not be eaten raw.
Plantain
Plantain

Popular in West Africa, Central America and The Caribbean, the plantain is usually fried, boiled or turned into a soup.
20. Longan Fruit

Native to tropical Asia and China, the longan is a tropical tree related to the lychee fruit tree. The longan fruit is an exotic little treat, often referred to as dragon’s eye.

Longans have long been popular in China, not just because of their mild and fresh flavors, but also due to their claimed health benefits.
Longan fruit
Longan fruit

Longan means “dragon eye” in Cantonese, and so named because the fruit resembles an eyeball, with the black seed inside being the pupil.

Often sold as dried or canned fruits, longan is a rich source of vitamin C, vitamin B2, copper and potassium, and it’s reasonably low in calories.

Unfortunately though, outside Asia, longan fruits can be really hard to find, but you may get lucky in Asian grocery stores or at large fruit markets.
21. Ackee

Stemming from the same soapberry family as the lychee, the rambutan and the longan, the ackee is native to tropical West Africa, and is considered the national fruit of Jamaica.

The ackee is a rather tricky fruit as it has a reputation as being poisonous, so much so that supposedly consuming this fruit when it’s unripe can be fatal.
Ackee
Ackee

The edible part of the ackee fruit is the yellow-colored flesh attached to the dark seeds. The skin and the seeds are the poisonous bits of the ackee and should never be consumed.

Ackee is super popular in Jamaica and is used in several dishes. The flesh of the fruit itself can be eaten is typically parboiled in salted water or milk. It is mostly sold as a canned product.
22. Black Sapote

Also known as chocolate pudding fruit (!), the truly unique black sapote will appeal to many, for obvious reasons.

Native to Mexico, the Caribbean and Central America, the black sapote is a species of persimmon is a smooth fruit that does indeed resemble chocolate pudding.
Black sapote
Black sapote

The weird thing about the black sapote is that it needs to be super ripe in order to consume this fruit. It literally needs to look like it’s rotten, and that’s when you can safely eat the inside flesh.

The inside of the fruit is dark, and actually looks kind of gross, but apparently that’s how it’s meant to be. Note that the flesh doesn’t actually taste like chocolate at all, which may be disappointing if that’s what the expectation was.
23. Finger Lime

An exotic fruit with flesh that looks like caviar… The Australian finger lime is often referred to as caviar lime because of the flesh inside that consists of round pulpy bits.

It’s a highly unusual citrus fruit and have become more popular in recent times, because it’s such a unique delicacy that works well in a various dishes.
Finger lime
Finger lime

Eating a finger lime is easy. Simply cut the fruit through the center, and then gently squeeze out the little pieces of pulp that you can then eat.

The little bulbs burst inside your mouth when chewing them, which makes them quite pleasant to eat. Yum!
24. Breadfruit

The tropical breadfruit is strongly related to the jackfruit, and can be eaten when cooked as well as in raw form.

The most common way to consume breadfruit though is by roasting, baking or boiling them. You can do this when they are still unripe. If you do want to eat raw breadfruit, they need to be ripe.
Breadfruit
Breadfruit

When eaten raw, breadfruit has a somewhat creamy and rather bland potato-like taste. When cooked, it’s often used as a replacement for potatoes, as it’s quite a starchy fruit.

You’ll notice that when it’s cooked, the flesh inside the fruit feels a bit like bread, which is how breadfruit got its name.
25. Chayote

Better known as mirliton squash, the chayote fruit is a member of the gourd family, which is also home to pumpkins, cucumbers, squash and melons.
Chayote
Chayote

The chayote plant is native to Mexico and its edible fruit is mostly eaten when it’s cooked. When eaten raw, it is typically added to salsas and salads.
26. Jabuticaba

Perhaps one of the weirdest fruits in this list is the tiny jabuticaba fruit that actually grows directly on the trunk of a tree.

These little fruits are often treated in the same way as grapes, and as such can be eaten straight off the tree.
Jabuticaba
Jabuticaba

Native to Brazil, the name Jabuticaba actually refers to the grapetree that produces the little fruits that can grow to 3-4 centimeters in diameter.

The fruits are dark-colored and have white-pulped flesh. When not eaten raw they are typically used to make jellies, jams, juice or even wine.
27. Monstera Deliciosa

Also known as the Swiss cheese plant, the Monstera Deliciosa is flowering plant native to the tropical forests of southern Mexico.

The name Monstera Deliciosa can roughly be translated as “delicious monster”. The monster part of the name supposedly refers to the plant that can grow quite tall. This is also where the name “Swiss cheese plant” comes in, because the leaves of the plant have lots of holes in them.
Monstera Deliciosa
Monstera Deliciosa

The delicious part of the name however, refers to the edible fruit, which is indeed very pleasant to eat. The fruit must be ripe though, because an unripe Monstera Deliciose can have poisonous effects.

The exterior of the fruit, covered with green scales, is tough and inedible. The white flesh inside has a unique, creamy taste that resembles a mix of pineapple, banana and coconut.
28. Noni Fruit

Spoiler alert… Noni fruit tastes and smells horrible. It’s also known as “starvation fruit”, the type of fruit you’d only eat when it’s the only thing left to eat.

Native to Southeast Asia and Australasia, noni fruit is a staple food in some cultures, and has long been used in traditional medicine, supposedly because the fruit offers unique health benefits.
Noni fruit
Noni fruit

While the fruit is difficult to eat, its juice is easier to digest, especially when mixed with water or other juices. Noni fruit is also sold in powder form, as supplements, and also as an ingredient in cosmetic products.
29. Pacay

More commonly known as ice cream bean, the pacay is the fruit of a tree that is native to northwestern South America.

The tree produces rather large pods (like beans) that contain an edible white pulp. It’s not only edible, it actually tastes really pleasant, almost vanilla ice-cream like.
Pacay
Pacay

The weird, fluffy texture of the pulp makes this fruit even more unique. It’s almost like your placing a sweet-tasting cotton bowl in your mouth.
30. Star Fruit

Also known as Carambola or birambi, and native to tropical Southeast Asia, the star fruit is so named because it’s shaped like a star when sliced.
Star fruit
Star fruit

Star fruit can be eaten raw when it is ripe, however when the fruit is still unripe it’s best to cook before consuming. It’s a very juicy fruit, with a crunchy and firm texture.
31. Pomelo

Native to Southeast Asia and Malaysia, the pomelo is a large citrus fruit, closely related to the grapefruit.
Pomelo
Pomelo

It doesn’t just look similar to a grapefruit, the yellow/green colored flesh of the pomelo also tastes quite similar to what a grapefruit tastes like, albeit less bitter.
32. Papaya

Originating from Mexico and northern South America, papaya is quite a common tropical fruit that over the years has become available all over the world.
Papaya
Papaya

The papaya plant can grow in three different sexes; male, female, and hermaphrodite. The male only produces pollen, while the female produces small, inedible fruits unless pollinated. The hermaphrodite, on the other hand, can self-pollinate. Commercial papaya orchards typically only contain hermaphrodites.
33. Sapodilla Fruit

Mostly cultivated in Mexico, Central America and Asia, the sapodilla fruit is a super sweet tasting and succulent fruit that is often eaten as a treat.
Sapodilla fruit
Sapodilla fruit

The flesh of the sapodilla fruit is soft and very easy to eat, making this fruit even more appealing to most people.
34. Bitter Melon

Also known as karela and bitter gourd, bitter melon is a plant that produces quite a unique fruit. Unique both in taste as well as in appearance.

Momordica Charantia in latin, bitter melon is a (sub)tropical vine originating from India. The plant is now widely grown in large parts of Asia, Africa and the Caribbean, primarily for its nutritious and bitter tasting fruit.
Bitter melon
Bitter melon

In Asian culture, bitter melon has been a popular fruit for centuries. The fruit is used as a versatile ingredient in many curry and stir fry recipes, but also in soups and herbal teas.

The other reason why bitter melon has always been so popular is that it’s been widely used in traditional medicine.
35. Santol Fruit

Let’s complete this list of exotic fruits with a truly unusual fruit, the santol. This exotic treat from Southeast Asia has an unusually thick skin with white-colored flesh inside.

When you cut the skin off, you’ll notice the similarities with the mangosteen fruit straight away, with a bunch of wedges of flesh tied together.
Santol fruit
Santol fruit

The flesh tastes rather sour, almost citrus-like, which certainly isn’t for everyone, but it’s incredibly powerful. The flesh contains seeds which apparently shouldn’t be eaten. The riper the fruit though, the sweeter the fruit becomes.
Final Thoughts

Hopefully this list of exotic fruits will inspire you to go out and about hunting for something different than the usual apple or banana.

The unique flavors of these rare and sometimes weird and unusual looking fruits can be quite addictive!

I would love to hear from you too. Have you tried any exciting tropical fruits that you really enjoyed eating? Let me know in the comments.
Pin for later!
 

35 Exotic and tropical fruits you need to try
 
 

Categories Fruits
Donna Harrison

I created Healthy Food Tribe because I am passionate about discovering new foods and learning everything about them. I am also a smoothie fanatic and I document all my favorite recipes here on my blog.
18 Comments

    Noel
    February 15, 2018 at 6:50 pm

    Lots of good fruit that I’ve tried but some of the Latin ones are new to me like the Pepino, Cupuacu and Cucamelon. I would love to try those.
    Reply
    Maurine Gomes
    March 6, 2019 at 1:33 am

    Have you ever heard of the “Rowenia” fruit tree? Someone gave me a small tree in a pot and I have it planted. Please email back if you know anything about this tree or where I can buy more of them to plant.
    Reply
        Donna Harrison
        March 7, 2019 at 10:15 pm

        Sorry Maurine, never heard of that one, but maybe someone else will chime in.
        Reply
        Brad
        September 27, 2019 at 8:59 pm

        Maybe a Rowan tree? They have small edible berries in clusters. The only other thing I can think of that is close is a Rowena tree, which is a type of oak and bears acorns.
        Reply
    Katy
    April 8, 2019 at 8:46 pm

    Totally cool! I love tropical fruits and am on the hunt to discover more. This was a great resource!!
    Reply
        Donna Harrison
        April 9, 2019 at 4:47 am

        Thanks Katy, glad you like exotic fruits as much as I do!
        Reply
    Mya Mya Khaing
    May 26, 2019 at 11:59 am

    Thanks for your exotic fruits list.
    I got a lot of knowledge out of it, thank you so much.
    Reply
    Guy
    July 2, 2019 at 6:49 pm

    My personal favorite is jackfruit, it is heaven!
    However, most of these exotic fruits are SO expensive. 🙁
    Reply
        Donna Harrison
        July 3, 2019 at 7:57 am

        That’s true Guy, some of these fruits are indeed quite expensive. But it’s so much fun to try them out, even if it’s only once or twice.
        Reply
    Albina
    July 30, 2019 at 6:33 am

    And what about Papaya!?!?
    Reply
        Donna Harrison
        July 30, 2019 at 6:48 am

        Good call! I may just have to include papaya in this list of exotic fruits in the future.
        Reply
    Vivienne
    September 8, 2019 at 3:27 pm

    Can anyone help with this one?
    A fruit about the size, shape and color of a small green apple. The stalk that joins it to the tree is quite fat compared with an apple stalk. When it’s ripe the white pulp tastes a bit like creamy custard. It grows in Tenerife.
    What is it called?
    Reply
    Petr Chaloupský
    October 4, 2019 at 7:42 pm

    Hey, nice overview. I’m gonna visit the local Vietnamese district in Prague/CZ where they have tons of these unusual fruits. The other day I noticed a local Vietnamese trader selling boxes of cherimoyas on Facebook so I messaged him and bought one box. They were so good! It inspired me to do some research and hunting.
    Reply
        Donna Harrison
        October 4, 2019 at 8:51 pm

        Yes, cherimoyas are among my favorites too! Not sure why, but I’m a bit surprised that exotic fruits apparently are so readily available in Prague, so I’m keen to come visit now. Thanks for sharing Petr, great story.
        Reply
    Erika Simmons
    September 9, 2020 at 4:01 pm

    Cherimoya fruit sound good, hope I get to try it someday.
    Thank you for sharing this interesting collection of fruits.
    Reply
        Donna Harrison
        September 10, 2020 at 9:52 am

        Thanks so much Erika, glad you liked this list. So many delicious fruits out there!
        Reply
    Vincent
    February 2, 2021 at 7:58 pm

    Incredible! In search to learn more about the Jack fruit! I just learnt of another more 34 fruits! Thanks so much Donna for the well explained info!

    I have come across some fruits in my child hood, like the Ackee, some growing in the bushes and as riverines in Western Kenya, but it’s only today that I’ve known of their names and that they’re found majorly in other parts of the world.
    Reply
        Donna Harrison
        February 2, 2021 at 8:12 pm

        Thanks so much Vincent, glad you found this fruity article helpful!
        Reply

Leave a Comment

Comment
Name
Email
Website

Welcome to Healthy Food Tribe!
My name is Donna and with my blog I hope to offer you lots of tips and information about food, smoothies, kitchen equipment, and recipes.

Facebooktwitterpinterest
Search for:
Recent Articles

    What Are Castelvetrano Olives? (Nutrition and Benefits)
    What Are Kalamata Olives? (Nutrition and Benefits)
    15 Common Types of Olives Explained
    What Is the Spiky Kiwano Fruit (aka Horned Melon)?
    Masticating vs Centrifugal Juicers (A Detailed Comparison)
    Review of the Breville 800JEXL Juice Fountain Elite 

    About
    Contact
    Privacy & Disclosure

© 2021 Healthy Food Tribe | As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
