
Skip to Content

    Getting Started
    How-tos
    Career Paths
    Desk & Decor

Worksion	
7 Best Mechanical Pencils for Drawing & Writing (2021)

Posted on Last updated: July 21, 2021	Categories Desk & Decor	

By: Author Selena Marc	

There’s a lot of reasons to love the mechanical pencil, from their engineer-like precision to their whimsical artistry.

The best mechanical pencil will always be sharp and erasable, and its ergonomic grips will make it infinitely more comfortable than a wooden pencil.

    This post may have affiliate links, meaning we earn a small commission on purchases through the links (at no extra cost to you). This does not change our opinion but does help support the site. Thank you!

	OUR TOP PICKS 	
BEST OVERALL
	
rOtring 600*

    Technical precision
    Made in Germany
    Hexagonal to prevent rolling

	
VIEW LATEST PRICE →*
BEST ERGONOMIC
	
Pilot Dr. Grip*

    Reduce writing pain
    Sturdy
    Superior comfort

	
VIEW LATEST PRICE →*
BEST COLORED LED
	
Pilot Color Eno*

    8 colored led pencils
    Creamy and vibrant
    Made in Japan

	
VIEW LATEST PRICE →*
best mechanical pencil
What to look for in a mechanical pencil
Right Size Lead

With so many to choose from, how do you find the right one for your project? First, you need to think about the lead.

There are 4 common sizes of leads for mechanical pencils. Before you even start looking at the best mechanical pencil for you, know which lead size you will need. If you’re in doubt, .5mm and .7mm are both very versatile for both writing and drawing.

    0.3 mm: thin for detailed drawings or fine writing.
    0.5 mm: popular, good for writing and drawing.
    0.7 mm: most common, good for writing and drawing non-detailed work.
    0.9 mm: popular for sketching or use on newsprint where a thinner lead would rip through.

bundle of pencils, mechanical pencils
Comfortable Grip

Secondly, if you’ll be using your mechanical pencil for long stretches of time, it’s worth it to upgrade your cheapie and invest in one with a comfortable grip. Your hand will thank you.
Tip that Meets Your Needs

Another issue to be aware of is mechanical pencils come with both fixed and retractable tips. Fixed tips tend to be more stable, easy to see around and better for very detailed work. On the other hand, if you’re carrying your pencil around in your pocket, retractable tips will prevent you from accidentally stabbing your leg and are better on-the-go.

With that in mind, here are our top picks for best mechanical pencil.
rOtring 600 Mechanical Pencil
Best Overall: rOtring 600 Mechanical Pencil

rOtring mechanical pencils* from Germany icons in the world of writing instruments. Inspired by Bauhaus aesthetics, they aim for technical precision and minimalist form. They’re beautiful without being painted or colorful and comfortable without being padded or soft.

There are a lot of additional features. They’re designed to write for hours without slipping and they come with a built-in indicator so you can easily see what hardness of lead is loaded in the pencil.

For anyone who has watched helplessly as their mechanical pencil rolled off the desk, a hexagonal body design prevents rolling. A fixed lead guidance sleeve lets you easily see if you’re doing precision work or using a ruler.

Fernweh Editions Fern & Petals Candle

One word of caution, this tip is fragile so either leave it on your desk or find a pencil case for transit. The sleeve will get damaged if dropped.
Shop Now*
Sheaffer Prelude
Best Executive Mechanical Pencil: Sheaffer Prelude

If you want a pencil to make a statement, this is it. The Sheaffer Prelude* features black matte and 22KT gold plate trim. The 0.7mm lead will hold up and write smoothly even if you tend to exert a lot of pressure while writing.

It’s an elegant and professional pencil designed to rival the pens on your desk. Makes a great gift for graduation, a new job or promotion and comes in a luxury gift box.
Shop Now*
WSD Sketch Up pencil
Best for Sketching: WSD Sketch Up

With sketching you’re not looking for detail, you want to catch an impression and fast. For this, the mechanical pencil’s cousin, the clutch pencil* is a perfect option. It holds larger leads and allows for a more free-flowing, sketching style of drawing. The advantage of a clutch pencil is similar to a mechanical pencil but with a few key differences.

Instead of pushing the lead forward, a clutch pencil lets you adjust how much lead is out for you to work with. This is an advantage for artists and designers using it for sketching or shading. Because the lead it larger (in this case 5.6mm), it comes with its own built-in sharpener in the lid.
Shop Now*
Best for Minimalist Luxury: Modern Fuel

If you’re a writing purest looking for a quality mechanical pencil you can use for a lifetime, check out Modern Fuel. Each of their mechanical pencils is carved out of a solid block of metal and contains no plastic parts. Because of this process, each pencil is unique and designed to last — they come with a year-long guarantee but after using it, it feels sturdy enough to last much longer.

Modern Fuel’s pencils come in a giftable box with extra lead, an optional clip, abundant eraser replacements (always a plus!), and a small allen wrench for adjustments. The mechanical pencils come in a range of four metal materials, each boasting their own personality from the softer, patina-developing, and weightiness of copper to the light-weight and nearly indestructible of titanium. Makes a great gift for someone who appreciates craftsmanship and the finer things in life.
Shop Now
mechanical pencil
Most Ergometric: Pilot Dr. Grip Mechanical Pencil

Need a mechanical pencil that puts your comfort first? If you spend long hours writing, deal with hand fatigue, or deal with arthritis, try Pilot’s Dr. Grip pencil*. Launched in 2013, Dr. Grip mechanical pencils are designed to provide superior writing comfort and reduce pain associated with writing. 

Beyond being comfortable to write with, it’s also a quality mechanical pencil. It features a shake mechanism to forward the lead, sturdy feel and easy to refill.

Fernweh White Sand Beaches Candle
Shop Now*
Pentel Arts GraphGear 1000 Premium Gift Set
Best Set: Pentel Arts GraphGear 1000 Premium Gift Set

If you’re an architect, drafter, or artist, you’ll soon discover you want a pencil in each thickness. Pentel Arts GraphGear 1000* is a quality set of mechanical pencils that includes the four most popular sizes of pencil leads: .3mm, .5mm, .7mm, and .9mm. It comes with color-coded pencils, leads and replacement erasers.

A 4mm tip allows it to work well with rulers and stencils and retracts to prevent the lead from breaking. The metallic grip is inlaid with soft, latex-free pads for a more comfortable grip.
Shop Now*
BIC Mechanical Pencil Variety Pack
Best Cheap Pencils: BIC Mechanical Pencil Variety Pack

There are many times that having mechanical pencils comes in handy. Whether you’re on a tight budget, need a few extras as back-up, or to give out without worrying about getting them back, this variety pack of Bic mechanical pencils* combines good writing quality with a very affordable price tag.

The pack comes with a 60-count of mechanical pencils with .5, .7 and .9 lead types fitting most writers and needs. Plus at that price, you won’t need to tear your hair out if a few get lost. They come in a range of cheerful colors.
Shop Now*
Pilot Color Eno Automatic Mechanical Pencil
Best with Colored Lead: Pilot Color Eno Automatic Mechanical Pencil

While most people associate mechanical pencils and gray graphite lead, there are also amazing colored mechanical pencils. This set* comes from the popular Color Eno line from Japan and includes 8 colors: red, pink, orange, yellow, green, soft blue, blue, and purple.

The leads are 0.7 mm, soft, creamy and vibrant. Plus being mechanical, you never need to stop your work to sharpen them. Just be aware that it will be more difficult to replace the leads than with a graphite pencil.
Shop Now*

Read more:

    woman with mug
    Best Mug Warmers To Help Keep You Sane While Working
    best desk setups
    9 Desk Cabinets to Keep Your Work Space Neat and Tidy
    desktop setup with keyboard
    Essential Furniture: 7 Computer Desks With Keyboard Tray
    best office wall décor - office wall decor on a plain blue wall
    Best Office Wall Décor - Ideas, Inspiration, Examples & More

Fernweh Passion Fruit and Guava Candle

work from home writing jobs	
6 Creative Writing Jobs You Can Do From Home
← Read Last Post
How to Write About Yourself: 5 Steps to the Perfect Professional Bio
Read Next Post →
Fernweh Editions Scented Candles
The Aromi Designer Perfumes and Colognes
Looking for something?
Search for:
Important Links

    DMCA & Content Policy
    Home
    Privacy Policy

Affiliate Notice

Worksion participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we get paid commissions on purchases made through our links to retailer sites. Our editorial content is not influenced by any commissions we receive and we thank you for the support.

Worksion.com is also a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. Amazon and the Amazon logo are trademarks of Amazon.com, Inc or its affiliates.
Recent Posts

    Write About Your Professional Background So You Stand Out
    Technical Writer Jobs: A Typical Day and How To Become One
    How to Be a Project Coordinator and Manage Projects Like a Boss
    10 Drawing Pens for Illustrators You Won’t Know How You Lived Without
    Are Office Phones Still Essential? Plus 8 of the Best

Copyright © 2021 Worksion
